Hi all
from flight tutor in this session
we will review in a simple way the
basic concepts that explain a
simple way how what is generated is generated
we call the sustentation
the lift is a generated force
by the fuselage and various parts of the
plane but we will not be able to focus
in all the components that generate
this effect but let's focus on
the main one that are the wings and also
in two basic principles that give us
a simple explanation of how it is that
generates this effect there are currently two
theories that explain the sustainability the
first is the bernouilli theorem and the
second is the well-known third law of
Newton do not worry that the idea is
explain these two concepts of a
very simple and basic way to be able to
understand how they relate to the
lift
first we will review the theorem
bernouilli for this we imagine a
water hose that we found in
the house with which we water from time to time
when the garden we know that inside
this hose we have water and the water is
a fluid just like the air so
both of them behave very
Similary
now what happens if we press the
hose somewhere slightly
let's say for the middle part as
we show in the figure
if we take that water is a fluid that
the same amount can not be compressed
of water that passed through the hose
original will now want to go through a
with a smaller area and at the same time and
so this can happen the water is going to
speed up
but not a canvas experiment measured the
pressure in the two sections and concluded
that the pressure decreased where the
fluid was therefore accelerated to
moment that we accelerate a fluid we do
that its pressure decreases
now imagine this seeing the cut of
profile of some plane and we change the
water by air
let's see that because of the curvature
existing on the surface above the
wing that is similar to the tube that
I use bernouilli for your experiment
the air is going to accelerate and therefore
the pressure in this part will decrease
and it's going to be less than the air pressure
that goes under the wing this
difference of pressures is what generates
the sustentation
now let's see what Newton tells us
Newton's third law tells us that all
action has a reaction with it
force but in the opposite direction a
very simple example is a rocket when
start the rocket combustion this
combustion generates a downward force
and the opposite reaction this action is that
the rocket go up
now we are going to apply this concept in
a wing and for this we imagine the wing
like a wall
the air molecules that come by
under the wing they will hit this
wall and the air is going to be reflected towards
down as you can see in the animation
in a slightly exaggerated way but
to give us a better idea of ​​how
this would happen this deflection towards
below is the action
On the other hand, if we see how the
air above and below the wing
let's see what the curved shape of the wing
makes the air that is given by the
part of above follow said curve
the air molecules when they reach the
back of the wing are deflated
down along with the air that arrives
below the wing this reflection is the
action
according to Newton's third law the
result of these forces that of flec
so the air down the wing are going to
have a reaction of the same strength
but in the opposite direction this is what
we would call the sustentation
in this session we have seen in a way
very basic and simple the explanation of
the two main theories that explain
the sustentation
the first was the bernouilli theorem that
showed us that a higher speed we're going
to have less pressure and this
difference of pressures that exists between
the air that passes above and below
of the wing is what produces the
lift
then we saw the third law of newton that
tells us that every action has a
reaction of the same forces but in
opposite direction and therefore the air
that affected down produces the
reaction that is the sustentation
although both definitions are based
in physical theories currently valid
there is a great discussion in which has
a better contribution to the explanation of the
What do you think?